Project Submission

In this stage, you will use the Python programming language to build your own quiz. You will use a fill-in-the blank style to create a quiz that can even be used as a study tool to help you remember important vocabulary.

1 - Game Review
In this portion of the review, your reviewer will be checking to make sure the game works the way it's supposed to. See the rubric below for exact specs.

2 - Code Review
Your reviewer will also look at the Python code you've written and provide feedback on:

Use of Variables: Your code should take advantage of variables and variable names should reflect the values they store.
Functions: Your code should use functions appropriately to avoid repetition. Function parameters should have logical names and should all be used in the body of the function.
Appropriate use of Data: Data types (strings vs lists for example) should be used appropriately.
Appropriate use of other coding techniques: Your code should use statements like if, then, else, while, etc... appropriately.
Each function includes a comment: Comments explain function behavior, inputs, and outputs (if applicable.)
The rubric that will be used is here.

PROJECT SPECIFICATION
Code Your Own Quiz

Game Review

CRITERIA
MEETS SPECIFICATIONS
Game Basics

Game has 3 or more levels and each level contains 4 or more blanks to fill in

Beginning the Game

Immediately after running the program, user is prompted to select a difficulty level from easy / medium / hard

Once a level is selected, game displays a fill-in-the-blank and a prompt to fill in the first blank.

Game Play

When player guesses correctly, new prompt shows with correct answer in the previous blank and a new prompt for the next blank

When player guesses incorrectly, they are prompted to try again

Code Review

CRITERIA
MEETS SPECIFICATIONS
Use of Variables

Code uses variables to avoid magic numbers

Each variable name reflects the purpose of the value stored in it

Once initiated, the purpose of each variable is maintained throughout the program

No variables override Python built-in values (for example, def)

Use of Functions

Functions are used as tools to automate tasks which are likely to be repeated

Functions produce the appropriate output (typically with a return statement) from the appropriate input (function parameters)

No functions are longer than 18 lines of code (does not include blank lines, comments, or function and variable definitions)

Appropriate Use of Data

The appropriate data types are used consistently (strings for text, lists for ordered data, nested lists as appropriate)

Appropriate Use of Coding Techniques

Student demonstrates coding techniques like branching and loops appropriately (i.e. to loop through a list, for element in list:; or to test whether something is in a list, if name in list_names:)

Comments / Documentation

Each function includes a comment which explains the intended behavior, inputs, and outputs (if applicable)

Suggestions to Make Your Project Stand Out!
Let the user decide how many wrong guesses they can make before they lose
